[theme song plays]
- ♪ In a kingdom
old and grand ♪
- ♪ Elena ♪
- ♪ A princess bravely
rules the land ♪
- ♪ Elena ♪
♪ With her family by her side ♪
♪ Elena ♪
♪ It's a wild and daring ride ♪
♪ Elena of Avalor ♪
♪ Myth and mystery everywhere ♪
♪ Loyal friends
are always there ♪
♪ Loyal friends always there ♪
♪ Magic shines
from deep within ♪
♪ Magic shines from within ♪
♪ Let her royal reign begin ♪
♪ Elena ♪
♪ Elena of Avalor ♪
[Naomi] Previously,
on Elena Of Avalor...
Are you Quita Moz?
You see things
in the fire?
The past, the present,
the future.
[Mateo] My grandfather
wanted to make sure
the Scepter of Night
didn't fall
into the wrong hands.
So, he broke it
into three pieces.
We got it!
The first piece of the scepter!
Fortunately,
I heard the riddle
that leads to the next piece.
So, who's ready to solve
the second riddle?
[Elena reading]
[Mateo]
"In the valley of stars,
find the sun
that sparkles
inside the moon.
Guess we all better put on
our riddle caps.
We have to find the next piece
before Shuriki.
Don't worry. I am a wiz
at cracking riddles.
You mean jokes.
[laughs]
How is it possible
for one kid
to get this much
dirt on her face?
-[horses whinny]
-[gasps] I think
they're home!
Mama! Papa!
-[gasps]
-[Naomi] Elena?
-What do you think?
-About what?
The riddle we're trying
to solve, remember?
[sighs]
I'm sorry.
Seeing Shuriki again
reminded me
of my parents.
We have to stop her.
And we will.
But first we have
to solve that riddle.
Right, of course.
What was it again?
"In the valley
of stars,
find the sun
that sparkles
in the moon"?
I got it!
We have to go
to the moon.
No, Skylar.
We have to go
to Vallestrella.
Valley of the stars.
That's what
"Vallestrella" means.
-Oh!
-Great!
To the realm
of the jaquins!
Wings up, amigos!
Ah, ah, ah!
Right after
we lock this up
in the palace treasury.
There's no time
for that.
Tell him, Gabe.
Actually,
I agree with Mateo.
-What?
-We need to secure it
immediately.
[Naomi]
No, we don't!
Wings down, amigos.
Beyond a doubt,
Shuriki,
we will find
the next piece
of the scepter
-in Vallestrella.
-Excellent!
Ah, but since
the jaquins
do not like humans
in their realm,
we will need
to be prepared.
So, it is time
you made us malvagos.
How many times
must I tell you
I cannot make you
into malvagos
without a wand?
But Fiero can...
with his tamborita.
[Fiero laughing]
You are not ready
to become dark wizards.
Yes, we are.
We have learned
all the spells
in this spell book.
And made our own
tamboritas.
-[grunts]
-What was that?
-A self-destruct spell?
-Enough!
Can't you see we have
bigger problems at hand?
How are we going
to enter Vallestrella?
That is a good question.
Only jaquins can open
the gateway.
Ugh! Are you telling me
I must ride
one of those
disgusting creatures?
Only if we are
lucky enough
to find one
willing to take us.
We do not
need luck.
There's an outlaw
I met during our travels
who is quite resourceful.
Then takes us
to him, Victor.
We have no time
to waste.
Follow me!
[grunts angrily]
[Mateo]
If the staff is locked up,
Shuriki won't be able
to make the Scepter of Night
even if she finds
the other two pieces.
Wings up!
But going
to Vallestrella
is our best chance
to catch Shuriki.
Wings down.
We should split up.
Gabe and Mateo,
take the staff
to the palace.
Naomi and I will
go to Vallestrella
to find the next piece
of the scepter
and take care of Shuriki.
As soon as we
get the staff
back to the palace,
we'll come find you.
[Victor] Just through
those trees... ooh!
...there's a hidden den.
That's where
the outlaw,
Troyo, lives.
Princess Elena tried
to expel him from Avalor,
but he snuck back in.
[Carla] It's the
royal wizard, "Matato."
He has the staff!
But where is Elena?
She must already
be on her way
to Vallestrella
for the scepter piece
while we are wandering
in the jungle.
Actually, this is
wonderful news, Fiero.
She's not there
to protect them.
You two, go get
the scepter staff.
But they're
on jaquins!
We'll never
catch up to them.
Unless we were malvagos.
Then we could use
a magic spell.
Carla is right, Shuriki.
Hmmph.
All right, then.
Fiero,
make them malvagos.
Ugh! You cannot
possibly think
these two
can handle
the power.
We shall find out
soon enough.
Do it!
[squeals] Finally!
Hmmph.
En cualani
en malvago.
En acualli
en malvago!
En catzacti
[Carla chuckles]
Do you feel it, Papa?
[evil laughter]
Yes!
[Victor laughing]
I feel the magic
coursing through my veins.
If only Mama
could see us now.
You will not regret this.
Come along, Carla.
[Victor] I will cast
a speed spell
on the horses.
Oh! I know that spell.
Hualoa!
-[horses whinny]
-[Carla shrieks]
-[both screaming]
-[Carla] What's happening?
[Victor]
You said the wrong spell!
[groans]
I regret this already.
Mualoa!
Now, let us
meet this Troyo.
[Luna]
Open, "says me."
[Naomi] Whoa!
[Butterfrog ribbits]
Was that a frog
or a butterfly?
Yup!
So, now we have
to find a sun
that sparkles
in the moon.
What does that even mean?
I don't know, but I have
some friends who might.
[horse whinnies]
[both gasp]
[gasps] No!
-No!
-It's okay, Elena.
[Skylar]
They're just flaringos.
These are the friends
I told you about.
[sighs] I'm sorry.
I just can't get Shuriki
out of my head.
-Hey, Zuni.
-Oh, hey, Skylar.
This is Princesa Elena--
she needs your help.
I have to solve
a very important riddle.
"In the valley of stars,
find the sun
that sparkles in the moon."
Whoa, there!
Slow down.
I can't. I have to prevent
an evil sorceress
from finding
this powerful weapon.
Bad mood alert.
Bad mood alert!
Yeah, you gotta
chill out!
Make today
a happy day.
[chuckles] Every day
is a happy day, Zuni.
Good point, Lomo.
So, can you help us or not?
Oh, yes.
First you must let go
of all of your
dark feelings.
Imagine them blowing away
like leaves in the wind.
[imitates wind blowing]
Um, she means
with the riddle, Maya.
We know where the sun
sparkles in the moon.
We can take you there.
Great! Let's go.
Ha! Adventure,
here we come!
Let's walk off
that bad mood!
I don't see any den.
It looks like
Victor was wrong.
No surprise there.
I say we turn back.
[Troyo]
Looking for Troyo?
I hear that he's
a handsome rapscallion.
King of the jungle--
more or less.
Fast as a flash
of lightning!
[Shuriki gasps]
We all get that
I'm Troyo, right?
[scoffs]
We need a jaquin
to get us into Vallestrella.
Troyo can make that happen...
for a price.
How about this?
If you get me a jaquin,
when I take over Avalor,
I will make you
the real king
of the jungle.
You just got yourself
a jaquin.
Hey, I'll even throw in
a second one...
at no extra charge.
I gave these jaquins
a place to hide out.
So, now they owe me.
This is Cruz,
and his twin sister,
Vestia.
Evil twin.
All you did was
break me out of jail.
I'm eviler.
I like these two
already.
[Elena] We've been
walking a while.
How much further is it?
I know the scenic route
takes longer,
but it is totally worth it!
Scenic route?
But we need to get there
before that sorceress.
Life is about the journey,
not the destination.
Nope. It's pretty much about
the destination right now.
You have no idea
what she did to my family.
Whatever she did,
if you keep peering
into the darkness
of your past,
you'll never see
a brighter future.
♪ When you go out
to see this fine world ♪
♪ When you look about
you're facing forward ♪
♪ Without a doubt
if you're looking behind ♪
♪ Then you're not gonna find ♪
♪ What's up ahead ♪
Ow!
♪ But here is the way ♪
♪ To live your best life ♪
♪ Do what we say,
forget your past strife ♪
♪ Every day
has so much in store ♪
♪ If you only look forward
instead ♪
♪ Look ahead ♪
♪ When life gives you hills
you just gotta roll ♪
♪ With the ups and the downs
or they'll take a toll ♪
♪ Better days
are always ahead ♪
♪ If you just keep on ♪
♪ Moving on ♪
♪♪
♪ Sometimes
dark memories creep ♪
♪♪
♪ Into your head
making you weep ♪
♪♪
♪ But just like the ripples ♪
♪ Let 'em all drift away ♪
♪♪
♪ And you'll see
a clearer day ♪
♪ That way ♪
♪ When life gives you hills ♪
♪ You just gotta roll ♪
♪ With the ups and the downs ♪
♪ Or they'll take a toll ♪
♪ Better days
are always ahead ♪
♪ If you just keep on
moving on ♪
♪ If you just keep on ♪
♪ Moving on ♪
[scatting]
[vocalizing]
[Elena scatting]
[music winds down]
[Lomo]
Yeah, that was good.
[Zuni]
Here we are.
The sun inside the moon!
That must be
the scepter piece.
Don't forget
to enjoy the ride.
What ride?
[grunts, screaming]
Oof!
I had to ask.
It's down there
pretty deep.
Well, how long can you
hold your breath underwater?
[sighs]
Not long enough
to reach it.
-[Butterfrog] Hey!
-[Elena] What?!
You're blocking my sun!
Uh... Oh, I'm sorry
about that.
Um, you see that sparkly thing
at the bottom of the pond?
The only thing I see is you
still blocking my sun!
Right. Uh, sorry.
I don't suppose
there's any way
you could dive down and get
that sparkly thing for us?
[chuckles nervously]
I'm kinda busy.
Would you look at that!
It's a total "Luna" eclipse.
So, that's how
you're gonna play it.
It's already been
played, Butterfrog.
Ugh!
[sighs]
[spits] There.
Now will you get
out of my sun?
Right after we find
the next riddle.
[Butterfrog]
Ugh!
Illuminate!
[Naomi]
Ooh! Down there!
[Elena] "When you reach
the highest of heights,
the jewel of night will be
in the clasp of your claw."
Oh! I know this one!
It's not the moon.
I don't know this one.
"The highest of heights."
Oh! What's the tallest
mountain in Vallestrella?
Monte Grande Garra.
Oh! Oh!
And at the very top
it's got a rock formation
that looks like a jaquin claw.
"The jewel of night will be
in the clasp of your claw."
That's where the third
scepter piece is.
Naomi, hold on to this.
Ahh, finally.
Thanks for the help!
No worries!
Where are you headed now?
Monte Grande Garra!
Don't forget
to keep on movin' on!
What an extraordinary place.
Uh, yeah, we probably
shouldn't linger
out in the open
like this.
My brother and I are
not exactly welcome here.
Then we'd better
solve the riddle quickly.
[Fiero] You there,
can you help us?
We are searching
for something
that looks like
a sun sparkling
inside the moon.
[chuckling] Whoa!
We just helped
some other folks
solve that same riddle.
And now they're off
on their journey
to Monte Grande Garra,
finding their way...
Elena must have
the scepter mount,
and now she's after the jewel.
Well, take us to this
Monte Grande Garra.
[Zuni]
One more thing.
They said there's
an evil sorceress
on the loose.
Yeah, so whatever you do,
do not tell her
where they're going.
[chuckling]
Yeah, we won't.
-[horses whinny]
-[Victor gasps]
Calooz!
[grunts]
Why did you stop?
Because we already
passed them.
Great! Now what?
Now we get the staff,
but this time,
leave the spell casting
-to me.
-Ugh!
Can you guys
go any faster?
We have to
catch up to Elena.
[both] Ecatuul!
Carla, I told you
I'd do it.
I know.
[all exclaiming]
What's happening?
The staff!
[grunts] Got it!
[grunts]
Victor and Carla?
[gasps]
They have the staff!
We have to get it back!
Mualoa!
[all exclaiming]
[gasps]
They're gone!
There it is!
Monte Grande Garra.
[Naomi]
But where's the scepter piece?
Reveal!
There! Now, how
do we get it out?
Elena!
[gasps]
Shuriki?
Vadishibat!
[gasps]
This ends today.
But what about
the jewel?
You get it.
I'll get Shuriki.
I don't think
we should split up!
Blaze!
[Cruz and Shuriki grunt]
We have
to get out of here.
-Blaze!
-[gasps]
[Cruz and Fiero grunt]
[sighs]
Hey, Wizard, any time
you wanna step in
with some magic...
Boqato!
[grunts] Blaze!
Look at her--
she's getting weaker
with each blast.
Yes, she is.
You go get
the scepter piece.
I will keep
the princess busy.
They're splitting up.
Who do we follow?
Shuriki!
Blaze!
That's it.
Keep firing.
Blaze!
Blaze.
-[groans]
-[gasps]
[Elena yelps]
Aah! Are you all right?
I'll be... fine.
Where is she?
Oh, silly girl.
While you were
playing chase with me,
you left your friend
all alone.
-Naomi!
-[Skylar growls]
I recognize that
helpless expression.
It's the same one
your parents had
before I struck them down.
[laughs]
[weakly]
We have to help...
[grunts, sighs]
[Naomi grunting]
[grunting]
It's not breaking.
[Fiero]
Then let me give it a try.
Boqato!
[Naomi and Luna exclaim]
[laughs]
Hand over
the other piece!
Not gonna happen.
Boqato!
-Aah!
[both grunt]
Run, Naomi!
I'll hold them off!
[growls]
-[Naomi gasps]
-Going somewhere with that?
-[Cruz] Not anymore.
-[Naomi whimpering]
[cries out, grunting]
Oh, why, thank you.
[shrieks]
[Shuriki laughing]
[Fiero]
I have the jewel!
I hate to leave you
hanging, but...
-[Shuriki laughs]
-[Naomi cries out]
You won't be much longer.
[laughs]
[grunting]
Aah!
-They have both pieces.
-[Elena] What?
I have to get them back.
[sighs, grunts]
You're not going anywhere.
Not until you rest.
[Luna sighs]
I'm sorry.
I tried to stop 'em.
[sighs] I should've
just stayed with you,
but I was so... Ugh!
[panting] I had
to go after her.
I get why
you're so mad,
but maybe it's like
the flaringos said.
If you don't let go
of your past,
you can really
mess up your future.
[sighs] You're right.
Look, here come
Gabe and Mateo!
[Luna] Well, at least
the guys locked up the staff.
Shuriki won't be able
to make that Scepter of Night
without all three pieces.
[Gabe sighs]
We have some bad news.
Victor and Carla
stole the scepter staff.
But don't panic.
As long as we have
the other pieces,
we're okay.
You have the other
pieces, right?
Scepter of Night.
Oh, how I have longed
for this moment.
Together, you and I will
take over Avalor for good.
[Fiero] Not so fast.
First I have to teach you
how to use it.
Then what are you waiting for?
Now that Shuriki has
the Scepter of Night,
we are all in danger.
What are we gonna do?
[all gasp]
-[all exclaim]
-[Mateo] It's a sun bird!
Quita Moz?
Princess Elena, the flames
told me what happened.
So, you know.
I failed.
Yes. Yes, you lost
this round.
But the struggle
is not over.
You can still
defeat the sorceress
if you learn
all the powers
of your scepter.
Will you show me?
Hmm.
Climb on.
[Naomi]
Elena, good luck.
Let's do this!